Class 5

Presentation 1 Maida
-Against the assertion

Book:
Last temptation of Christ

We need to think about a few things. Outwards decisions and the way it is seen.
The second step is to make the decision based on the outcome. (take action again)

The other dimension is the Self vs Others.
When you think about yourself you evaluate the cost and benefits regarding your own eprsonal benefit. This benefits can be pleasure, monetary etc. The cost can be similar as well. These are evaluated regardin the self.

When we think of a leader we think of him evaluating for others. (The benefit for my actions is that other people being happy) 
Decision that turn out to be helpful to other we deem as leaders

Not every influential person is a leader, (AKA The Kony Guy) but every leader hsa to be influential

"Actions of other peopple are very hard obtain. Like the guy who lead 7 people. But the actions were monumental."

Evaluate leaders with the Ex anti vs exposed. We all after the outcomes are realized. We should look at the decisions BEFORE the outcome.

We need to understand leadership to be better leaders

Recap
-What do leader want?
The objective function is super complicated. (I dress up to go the mall)
We have the assumption that we have something to maximize.
What is the objective of the leader? What do we want?
Dont think about an objective function.
Think about WHAT LEADERS WANT. What is the Objective?

-Leader?
There is no such person. This label is misleading. We said so much about action and etc...

-What do leaders do?
Think about actions not about outcomes.

Utility maximization.

Video 1:
A man dancing. Brings a whole bunch of people together to dance.
Swarm Intelligence.
A magnitute of effect. Deep and Wide. He had a wide effect, reached a certain bit of people. But was it deep? Questionable. 

Is kick starting good enough? Is opening the dams good enough? 
Lead/er 
Two main parts. To conjure, and to lead. You need to fill the gun and also directing. 
The motives of the leader. The motives of the dancers.
