17.02.2016

switching Routing

Routing: If you wanna send a package from A to B the network will figure out the route.

Store-and-Forward Switches

Switch!
A mechanism that allows us to interconnect links to form a large network.

Example: Start topology. The point to point connection, all connects to one AC.

Properties:
	You can build large networks. 
	Switches have a fixed number of input and output but you can connect switches to switches.
	Adding a new host is easy, it shouldnt get a performance hit.

These days you are usually having a 1 to 1 connection. 

You are switching and forwarding at the same time. I tcomes to you and you decide where to send it and send it.

How does it decide which output port?

Two approaches
	Datagram or Connectionless - the main dog
	Virtual circuit or Connection-oriented - low usage
	(?) Source routing - low usage

Assumptions:
	1) Every host has a globally unique address (Mac address for Ethernet)
	2) There is some way to identify the unput and output ports of each switch
		a)numbers - More often used
		b)names

Datagrams:
	Every packet contains enough information to enable ny switch to decide how to get it to destination. Every packet (even every frame) contains the complete destination address.

Routing Table in the Switch:
	HUGE table acting like an address book. 

The switch looks at the package, checks the address in the Routing table and decide on which output port. 

Propoerties:
	Host can send a packet anywhere at any time
		You dont know anything about the source (is it up, available etc) 
		You just send it and hope for the best.
	Each packet is forwarded independent of the previous packets. The route can change based on loads etc.
	A switch or link failure is not that catastrophic. YOu can find a different route.

The address is based on the protocol
	MAC address for ethernet
	IP for internet.



Virtual Circuit Switching
	Widely used technique for packet switching
	Uses the concept of virtual circuit (VC)
	Also called a connection-oriented model
	First set up a virtual connection from the source host to the destination host and then send the data
	

It has to establish a connection and then data transfer/
	1) Connection setup
	2) Data Transfer

When you establish the connection setup you figure out the individual steps. A - B B - C a doesnt know C.
Every switch has a VC table.
	
	The entries contaion:
	VCI (virtual circuit identifier)
	An incoming interfeace - packets come here
	An outgiong interface - packets leave here
	A potentially different VCI will be used for output. These are not global but locak.


When a conneciton is established you need to create the VC table.

Two connection states:
	A permanent virtual circuit PVC 
	Created by network admin

	The signal information sets up the VC
	This is automatic when A want to reach B a table is created

A VC can be made manual but in real life LOL NOPE

Signalling to create VC
	The set up message contains the full destination address. 
	From the lookup table you know where to go.
	When you jump to the second switch you create the half of the VC is created. 
	When the final host receives the coming signal it sends a ACK returns from the same route completing the other half of the CV table.
	

Charactheristics 
	You can not send data immediately, you need to wait AT LEAST 1 RTT. (establishing the connection)
	Data packets contain small identifier. Unique on one link. 
	If a switch or connection fails TOUGH LUCK, a new conneciton is needed.
	
	By the time the host gets the go ahead to send data you know a lot
		You know that the route exists
		You know that the receiver is willing
	It is possible to reserve some resources to the specific connection. VC





















