February 15th
Wireless and Distributed Systems

Wireless links transmist electromagnetic signals

Wireless links all share teh same "wire"
Challenge is to share it efficiently.
	2G - You share time
	3G - You superimpose your packets in an "orthogonal" manner. When you receive it you multiply it with your code and get 1, everyone else's message returns 0
	4G - You split the frequency.

Spectrum is assigned to a system is scarce. Itis hard to support hundreds and thousands of people.

There are centralization behind all that stuff. FCC (federal communications commission)

Some are allocated for government use:
	Police
	Millitary

Spefici bands are reserved for stuff
	Am
	FM
	Satalite
	Television

Specific frequencies within these bands are given to organizations. You vasically sell these frequencies. (the countries do)

You always try to balance fairness - throughput maximization. (Good connection more time to maximize or give the poor some time too)

Devices that use license-exempt frequencies are still subject to certain restrictions
	Limit on transmission power
	Limit on the range

Intinuation. Signal detoriates. The more distance it travels the worse it gets. 
(friction)

As the G's go up power goes down?

The higher frequency you have the higher Intuniation. It is favourable to keep small frequencies. 

This is one of the reasons why we cant just increase frequency. The bigger the frequency the more you can transmit. Double Check this!

Spreading Specturum.
When you send the signal you multiply it with a code with very small chipsize (which spreads the signal *think of a wider bell curve VS a very narrow bell curve)
On the end you multiply with the same small chipsize code, the XOR cancels out and you get the initial signal. 
If there is a noise in the way when you multiply at the receiver the noise gets spreaed out ( because it is the first XOR) but the actual data that is already been spread get narrower (because it is the second XOR)

Frequency Hopping
You are gonna divide your bandwith in a set of frequencies.
First transmition on first frequency second transmission on second frequnecy etc
By hopping through frequencies you hope that the noise hits you less.

!! Direct Sequence - A second Spread spectrum
This is an implementation of the Spread. You XOR with a chip twice.

Wireless techs differ
	Bandwith
	How far can the nodes be

Example - Fill this in with the slides
	Bluetooth 10m
	Wi-Fi 802.11 100m
	WiMax
	3G 10km

Most wireless links are asymetric. 
Laptop and Basestation

Wifi is point to multipoint (one baseconnection but many laptops) 
There is no direct communication, A - B communicates through the accesspoint. A - accesspoint - B

Three levels of mobility
	No mobility
	within the range of the base
	mobility between bases

Mesh or Ad-hoc
	Nodes are peers, messages may be forwarded via chain of peer nodes
	a decentrilized methods

IEEE 802.11
	Similar to ethernet it is designed to be used in a limited space.

Two standart radio-based physical layer both use 2.4Ghz and provide up to 2Mbps
	Frequency hopping
	Direct sequence (spreading using 11 bit chips)

802.11b
	Provided up to 11Bbps

802.11a
	delivers up to 54Mbps using OFDM
	They run a licence exempt 5-hz

802.11g 
	most recent
	backwards compatible with b
	delivers up to 52Mbps
	2.4Ghz

802.11n
	MOST Recent
	up to 300Mbps sometimes 600Mbps

In ethernet while you are transmitting you are also lsitening. 
You cant do that with wireless. 

A - B - C 
A and C can talk to B but not eachother.
If A/C sends to B 
B can sense the collision but not A and C so they dont know the coliision. (hidden node problem)

OR

A - B - C - D
If B is sending to A C can listen to it.
It can conclude that the line is full and not send to D even though it in reality can because D will never reach A/B

The solution is MACA (Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance - not collision detection as you cant listen and trasmit at the same time)


MACA
Sender and receiver exchange control frames.
Sender transmits RTS (request to Send)
Receiver replies CTS (clear to send) 
These frames are heard with everyone.

A - B - C 
A sends RTS to B.
B responds with CTS. 
Even though C didnt hear the RTS it heard the CTS.

A - B - C - D

A sends RTS
B responds CTS. Both A and C heard this.
But because C didnt hear RTS he knows that it is far away.
So C is not clear to send to B but to anyone else (because it will not interfere with A)



























