24.02.2016


Internetworking

Internetwork

Switches - The problem is that they share the address space. Ethernet - Wifi is close enough but other might not be.


They all should use the same network protocol - IP but other things can be different.

Transport portocol - TCP / UDP 
IP is accross the entire nodes. Common denominator.
802.11 

Each protocol shoudl have a corresponding communication on the other side. 

IP (Internet Protocol)
-Key to building scaleable and hetergenous
-It runs on all the nodes in a collection of networks.
-Datagram

Packet Delivery Mode
-Connectionless model for data delvery
-Best-effor delivery
--lost Packets
--out of order
--Duplicates
--Long delays

Global Adressing SCheme
-Provides a way to identify all hosts.

Ethernet Addressing Scheme
-Manufacturer-Host(unique)
-Ethernet ensures uniqueness but doesnt give any clue on where this is gonna reside.

Packet Format

Version(4):	 currently 4
Hlen(4):	 number of 32-bit words in header
TOS(8):		 type of service 
Length(16):	 Number of bytes in this datagram
Ident(16):	 used by fragmentation - Split the package in several small packages. Identifier. This will be used for all fragments.
Flags/Offset(16):used by fragmentaion. Flag 1 means it is a fragment and there are more to follow. Offset gives you where it starts.
TTL(8):		 number of hops this datagram has traveled, TTL (default 64)
Protocol(8):	 demux key - TCP = 6 / UDP = 17 (Which higher level protocol)
Checksum(16):	 of the header only - Same idea used in the CRC.
DestAddr(32):	 Destination full address
SrcAddrs(32):	 Source full address

IP Fragmentation and Reassembly

Each network has some MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit)
Ethernet 1500bytes
FDDI 4500bytes

If you receive FDDI and you pass it on the Ethernet you need to divide the packet into smaller chunks. 

Reassembly at the receiver.

Ident = Identifier of the fragments. All the fragments have the same Ident(ifier)
Flag = 1/0 Is this a fragment? Is there something coming after this. Last fragment has 0.
Offset = Where does this fragment fit in the overall data. Offset 0 means it is the start. Offset X means in the overall package it starts at X. 

!!Global Address!!

Globally unique
Hierarchical: network + host
4 Billion Ip adress, half are A type, 1/4 is B type, and 1/8 is C type.

Format
a) 0   | Network x 7  | Host x 24
b) 10  | Network x 14 | Host x 16
c) 110 | Network x 21 | Host x 6

decimal.decimal.decimal.decimal

IP Datagram Forwarding
-Everydatagram contains destionations address
-if directly connected to destination network then forward to host
-if not directly connected to destination network then forward to some router
-forwarding table mpas network number into next hop
-each host has a default router
-each router maintains a forwarding table


When a router receives a datagram:
If networkNumber of the destination == NetworkNum of one of my interfaces:
	Deliver packet to destination over the interface by making the correct address (IP to mac for example)
else
	if(network num of is in my forwarding table):
		deliver the packet to the NextHop based on the forwarding table
	else
		deliver the packet to default router.


Host if it doesnt have forwarding table
	If networkNum of destination == My NetworkNum:
		deliver packet to destination directly
	else:
		deliver packet to default router.


B is too big
C is too small

nothign in between. Lets subnet

Subnetting
-Add another level to address/routing hierarchy
-Use a subnet mask

255.255.255.0

Routing Table now has the SubnetNumber and the Subnet Mask (and next hop)


When you get an address use the subnet mask to check the subnet number. If the subnet number matches send it there, if not pass it along. 

This is a way to dividie the big chunks into smillar to groups.

-Would use default router if nothing matches
-Not necessary for all one in subnet mask to be contionous
-Can put multiple subents on one physical network
-Subnets are not visible from the rest of te internet (if it were visible the routing tables would explode in size)

CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing)
helps with scaling

-Routing tables grow and grow
-32bit address space can fill up


Address assignment efficiency
-The ABC structure results in lots of wasted shit.

Solution
- NO to B unless you show need for 64k
- Instead gıve em more C
*Problem
--Now a single company might have 3 entires of C in the routing table
--Which means it gets much bigger


CIDR tries to balance the desire to minimize the number of routes to the nmber of needs to know against the need to hand out address sufficiently.


Instead of handing out Class C's randomly you give them sequentially blocks.

like 192.4.16
     192.4.31

So the first 20 bits are the same which can be used as a shorthand

you use /X after te address to represent the X long prefix.

Match the longest prefix if ther are two prefixes


























