02.03.2016

Networks and Distributed Systems

MIDTERM 14.03.2016

Last lecture:
Routing Protocol - 
Vectorbased: One knows the full path to everyone.
LinkState: Only share the entire thing only with the neighbours.

Keep sharing information.


Problem:
Scaling is not feasable. 
Flooding would not work on a global scale.


How do we build a routing systemt to connect the internet.

IPV4 - Even though you have 4 bln addresses the utilization is not efficient. Even if that were the case 4 bln would be depleted at one point anyhow.

Split the Domain to areas.
The backbone area that is connected to other areas.
Some routers that are on the borders are area border routers.

Forwarding. If it matches the prefix you can broadcast.
	If not maybe you know some parts.
	Default, if you know nothing you should send it there. Which in this case it is the area border router.

You usually dont have hosts ocnnected to backbone area.

Interdomain Routing

Border Gateway Protocol(BGP)

Internet is organized as autonomous.

Exterior Gateway Protocol(EGP)
Assumes that the internet is an arbitrarily interconnected set of Autonomous Systems. 
It assumes that the initial "Tree Like" Structure. Assumes no interconneciton.


BGP
Assumes teh internet is an arbitrarily interconnected set of ASs.
These are connected to each other in arbitrary ways.

BGP-4
It assumes arbitrary connections,
Define local traffic as traffic originates as or terminates on ndoes within an AS, and transit traffic as traffic passes through an AS.

Three types of AS
Stub AS: An AS that only has a single connection to on other AS. This will carry local traffic.

Multihimed AS: An AS that has connections to more than one other AS but refuse to carry transit traffic.

Transit AS: an AS that has connections to more than one other AS, and is designated to carry both transit and local traffic. 

The goal of inter-domain routing is to find any path to the indended destination that is loop free.
We are concerned with reachability rather than optimality
Finding a path anywhere close to optimal is great.

It is somewhat impossible to do it.

Scalability: An internet backbone router must be able to forward any packet destined anywhere in the internet.

Autonomous nature of the domains
It  is impoosible to calculate meaningful path costs for a path that crosses multiple AS
A cost of 100 acress on providr might imply a great path but it might mean an unacceotabke bad one from another provider

Issues of trust
Provider A might be unwilling to believe certain advertisements from provider B


Each AS has:
one bgp speaker that advertises
-local networks
-other reachable networks (transit AS only)
-gives path information 


Creaeting a treelike hierarchy.

Why do you need full address?
-Policy based.
-You can get rid of loops if you see yourself in the advertisement you can get rid of it due to a loop.

The identifier for the AS should  be unique.

iBGP = internal
eBGP = external

IPV4 32 bit
IPV6 128 bit

We are changing shit might as well go big.


Mutlicast
real-time service
authentication and security
auto config
end to end fragmentation
enhanced routing functionality, support for mobile hosts


Classless routing
x:x:x:x:x:x:x:x
contiguous 0s are compressed
45CD::A456:0124
IPv6 compatible IPv4 address ::128.42.1.87
Address assignment 
provider based
geographic


40byte header
fragmentaiton
source routing
authentication and security
other options
